In the day's other news:
President Trump dove
back into the diplomatic
row over Qatar, where
10,000 U.S. troops
are stationed.
Saudi Arabia, Egypt and other
Arab states have cut ties
with the Persian Gulf kingdom.
At his Rose Garden
news conference today,
Mr. Trump praised the
Saudis and said Qatar
must do more to fight extremism.
DONALD TRUMP: The nation
of Qatar, unfortunately,
has historically been
a funder of terrorism
at a very high level.
The time had come to call
on Qatar to end its funding.
They have to end that
funding and its extremist
ideology in terms of funding.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just an
hour earlier, Secretary
of State Rex Tillerson
had taken a very different
tack.
He urged the Saudis and
others to ease what he
called a blockade of Qatar.
He said it's hindering U.S.
military efforts, including
against the Islamic State group.
The president also did today
what he had not done at
NATO meetings last month.
He said he absolutely supports
the alliance's Article 5.
That provision requires NATO
members to defend one another
in the event of an attack.
Mr. Trump also called
again for member states
to spend more on defense.
Iranians paid tribute today
to the 17 people killed in
Islamic State attacks on Tehran,
and their leaders blamed
the U.S. and Saudi Arabia.
At a mass funeral ceremony,
the speaker of Parliament
speaker lit into U.S. lawmakers
for moving ahead with new
sanctions against their country
hours after Wednesday's deadly
attacks.
MAN (through translator): As
the Iranian nation was engaged
in conflict with terrorists at
the Parliament, the
American Senate, with
ultimate shamelessness,
passed a law against
the Iranian nation and
in support of terrorists.
Doing this proved that America
is the great international ISIS.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, Iran's
Intelligence Ministry announced
that 41 people have been
arrested for suspected
links to the attacks.
In Iraq, ISIS took credit for a
suicide attack today that killed
at least 21 people and wounded
dozens more.
Officials say the Sunni
militants staged the
bombing at a crowded
market in a mainly Shiite
city south of Baghdad.
U.S. Army Private Chelsea
Manning said that she wanted to
show the human toll of the war
in Iraq, and that's why
she leaked thousands of
classified documents.
Manning spoke in her first
interview since being released
from military prison last month.
She told ABC News that she felt
obligated to expose civilian
casualties, While serving
as an intelligence
analyst in Iraq.
CHELSEA MANNING, Former U.S.
Army Private: We're getting
all this information, and it's
just death, destruction, mayhem.
And, eventually, you just
stop -- I stopped seeing just
statistics and information.
And I started seeing people.
I have accepted responsibility.
No one told me to do this.
Nobody directed me to do this.
This is me.
It's on me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The transgender
soldier formerly known as
Bradley Manning is now appealing
her conviction.
Meanwhile, a federal contractor
employee charged with leaking
classified information will stay
in jail until her trial.
Reality Winner was denied
bond yesterday in Georgia.
Prosecutors warned that
she might have taken other
classified documents.
Newly elected Congressman Greg
Gianforte will plead guilty
to assaulting a reporter.
A Montana prosecutor
says that the Republican
will make the plea deal
Monday to a misdemeanor
charge.
Gianforte allegedly knocked
down a reporter for The Guardian
newspaper the day before
last month's special election.
On Wall Street, blue chips
rose, but tech stocks sold off.
The Dow Jones industrial
average gained 89 points to
close at 21272, a new record.
The Nasdaq fell nearly
114 points, and the
S&P 500 slipped two.
And the stage is now
set for Japan's Emperor
Akihito to step down.
Parliament today adopted a
law authorizing the first
abdication in 200 years.
Akihito has indicated that he
wishes to retire, citing his
age, 83, and declining health.
The law clears the way
for Crown Prince Naruhito
to ascend to the throne.